pretty tricky.
Yeah, so there it is.
Yeah, it's got to be Red Riding Hood, don't you?
Look at the house, the book house, Chloe.
Yeah, it's not kind of fun.
I got carried away.
But I think this is great.
This is... Oh, that's... This is me.
Those are miniatures, right?
Yeah, they're all...
Oh, American, that's wonderful, American religious.
Look, and the title, I said the book house, and then the title of the book actually is the book house.
It's the book house.
That's the way it came out.
That's lovely.
And it was so just like that?
Yeah.
Yes, got it, as is.
Isn't that great?
See, I really didn't want anything that late, but then I thought that to go with that, you know.
Do you enjoy it?
Yes, I do enjoy it.
You have to make exceptions.
Yeah, and some of them are good illustrators.
Is that a case like a bookcase?
I don't know.
This is one of those twirling bookcases.
That's great.
I saw somebody with one of those.
I think it was Milt Reisman, who was a New York book dealer.
I said, wait, you get that.
And then I thought, that's the thing to have.
And then one day,
wandering on 3rd Avenue or somewhere.
I still want to write that and grab it.
Oh, and then plus the card file.
And the card file, I try to remember to make out the cards and what I paid for them.
So that was one, two, three, four, five, six.
Do you work at it regularly?
Yeah, I do.
I honestly do.
Yeah, and I'm way behind.
But I do, I really do.
I don't want to press the question, but would you say you're obsessive, you're an obsessive collector?
Sure.
Don't you think so?
Aren't all collectors?
When I tell you the title of my book, you'll see.
That's Yale.
Oh, aren't you wonderful?
This is great, I think.
I'm very proud of that.
Oh, look at that.
This is the Garden of a Child's Garden of a Dream.
Oh, the New York Public one.
Oh, these are wonderful.
Uh, this is what Bernie was...
He was editor of that.
I have these at home, so I can just, I have these.
It's December 86, right?
Yeah, and this... 1986.
I wrote about that thing, but as I said, you asked Bernie, because he left.
Oh, no, he did.
Oh, yes, I remember that.
Yeah, what do you think of that?
I remember that.
They put that on there.
Which date is that?
July of 91.
Yes, this is it.
But let me show you what that stinker, Bernie.
I told you my spelling's terrible.
And so here's my article on Santa Claus.
But what he left was, I wrote reindeer, D-E-A-R.
Somewhere he didn't correct it.
And I said that was a dirty trick.
You know, I thought it was so funny.
I can't remember where it is now.
Well, you'll see that it says D-E-A-R, and I said, did you miss that?
And he said, no.
I just thought it was so funny I left it.
I think that's pretty funny.
Sure.
Now, I'm looking for New York Public Library.
There.
Oh, thank you.
85.
Wow.
Well, you've been pretty... So I've been busy.
A busy woman.
Are you going to let us take it?
Yeah, I was going to say you can have all three because I've got... Would you kindly inscribe?
No.
Please.
That would be lovely.
This is a little lemento of our visitor.
I think I smell lunch.
These are Maxfield Parish's proof from other groups over here?
Proof for bombs from other groups.
Now, all of these followed the book collection, is that right?
You started doing books before these?
I started doing books before these and then got into these.
But these are every book are part of the collection.
Oh, yeah.
Yes.
Is this part of the collection that will go to Yale as well?
Most of them.
Some of them won't, but some of them will.
And I've given a couple to the brandy wine, just because we know all those guys down there.
This is Hammett Billings.
I've never found the book.
The only way I know I haven't found it is that the priest in the house that Jack built doesn't have a hat on.
And all the ones I've got, he has a hat on.
All the houses look like this.
Jack looks pretty much like this.
It's the only one, yeah.
Did these come as individual plates, or did you frame them?
I framed them.
They were individual plates from somebody's collection.
They're wonderful.
This is kind of fun, only because they're in such good condition.
This is cards that you bought to put an album.
And it's Prang, who is a big lithographer.
Oh, Louis Prang from Boston.
Yeah, and it came looking just like this, and I thought it looked so nice, I'd better frame this.
Yeah.
Prang is so tough.
He's very collectible now, actually.
Yeah, and they're all just, these two are a little dark.
From all of that?
That was the, you know, that's, uh... Apocadarian, I guess you'd call it.
Yeah, they did.
He died.
What's his name?
Apocadarian.
That looks like the original principal.
It's a study, because I have the book.
It's a study for the dust jacket of that book.
I know this book.
You know this book, and I've got... We might even have a... For the moment, I can't remember.
Mm-hmm.
Darn it, I can't remember.
But that's what they call it, and that, and that— Provenas.
Provenas.
Here it is.
Provencin.
There, there.
He just recently died.
This is, again, Gillette Burgess.
Mm-hmm.
And this is, guys, trying to think, is, uh— These are splendid here, though.
That's the box, right?
Oh, they're fun.
Yeah.
That's great.
Now, let me see.
I think we'll... Hey, yes.
This is Walt Disney's study for... Oh, no.
No, wait.
Is that the Disney study?
I mean, it comes from the studio?
Yes, it isn't one of the cellular ones.
No, I like that better.
Yeah, I like it better.
This is Wanda Gag, Woods Blanc.
Can't find what that's from.
Isn't that something?
Do you make different kinds of things?
Yes, yeah.
That's another Winslow Homer, right?
Is that a homer again?
No, that's... Oh, gosh, that's one I want to show you.
It's up in the jar.
It's in the jar.
It's the one I wanted to see.
Okay, we'll take a look at it one way down.
This is Anton Otto Fisher.
And he... Carl said he couldn't wait to get... I think it was a Collier's magazine that he used to do when Carl was a boy.
This is...
This is another dolly here.
Which one was then for you, with your name on it?
That was me.
That was Gene Burns, who did regular fellows with a cartoon.
And I think he appeared every week, or maybe it was Sunday.
That's what it says.
It's a big lie, Mr. Duffy.
We sailors have not got Goyles in every port.
I only got one Goyle, and here she is, Betsy Shirley.
He's a nice guy.
Jane B.Y.
Everett.
This I love.
It's a poster.
Oh, that's splendid.
Which I think is great.
It's advertised as a children's book.
Yeah, but that's a lithograph, too.
Yes.
And she was a lady illustrator.
went to Ireland on vacation and never appeared again.
Something else.
Must be a good story.
Look how this is done.
Arabella and Ara Minta, stories by Gertrude.
But look how it just keeps going on the line.
Gertrude Smith with 15 pictures by Ethel Reed.
And that was one of the Peter Parley books.
That's why I got it.
Also, because I think Art Deco is one of them.
And that's the cover for a McWalfin magazine.
I've never found that magazine either.
And again, that's original artwork, right?
Yes, for it.
These were obviously Robinson Crusoe.
Which collection feeds the other now?
Does the art feed the book collection or does the book collection feed the other?
Books first.
The books come first.
Yeah.
Books first.
That's a dust jacket for Father Goose's book.
And I found the dust jacket on the book.
Oh, you did?
Oh, great.
Which is great.
Oh, that's bomb.
Yeah.
And then that's, that's Bemelman's.
And it's a study for, because it's not exact, it's a study for...
Madeline's Rescue, I think, is the book.
Yeah.
E-E-M-E-L-N-A-N.
That's Shin for the night before.
That's lovely.
That's funny.
Yeah, that's nice.
The little red dot means it's going to Atlanta, right?
Yeah.
This is kind of interesting.
You know, really, cause this is by, I never heard of him, and I got it from Justin.
But he is in the Metropolitan.
His name is something like Simeon Shinn.
Yeah, there it is.
S-H-I-N-S-S-Y-M-S-S-H-I-N-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-
And I looked up the date, and I think it's 1968.
1968, yeah.
Yeah, 68.
And I knew that Maurice Sendak did the first book that had a little boy with no pants on it.
Nobody was going to allow it.
And he told me that in libraries they could cover him up still.
Yes.
And I thought, gee, how'd you get away with that?
Then I noticed that when the thing came out,
The little boy always has a diaper on, so they must have.
It's a story about a little boy in the desert.
Obviously, he wouldn't have had pants on, and they must have made him put pants on.
But, I mean, at least the artist put the pants on.
You don't think that they... No, I think they probably said to him, we can't, unacceptable this way.
I don't know.
This, this, I can't find that.
And here we have the tail of a donkey in the bathroom by Valenti Angelo.
Yeah, I've got all his worksheets for that.
I just thought at some time it'd be fun to show this is how a book is made.
So I've got the worksheets, because he wrote the book and did the illustrations.
Valenti Angelo, I'll write him down.
Now, he's sort of modern, and that's one of those celluloids.
Do you get to know, I mean, know in terms of
You get to know all the authors.
Personally, you mean?
No, no, I mean in terms of knowing their work.
Can I spawn it?
You mean?
Oh, things that you like are things that are important for the collection.
Well, you know, somebody will take me, I've got such and such.
I guess I'm always trying to get the old things in their hearts and they're harder to find.
Efforts to do color illustrations.
And so somebody came to Justin's... Didn't this just come out a little while ago?
No, it came out in... What's the date?
I just looked it up.
What came out with the reissue?
Yeah, no, I meant to be reissue.
1960.
No, it's not.
It's 32 years.
That's the original art?
That's the original art for this.
Then Scribner's was, and there's the original end paper.
Oh, the original end paper is over here.
And then they were going to do a paperback.
You see, he would hit the spine when it folded over.
And they never did issue it.
Oh, this is a beautiful color.
So in place of the wools.
Did you see where the spine was?
Yeah, he's got it in place.
Isn't it perfect?
Do you think he wanted that?
Oh, on purpose, because it was commissioned for the paperback edition, and then scriveners didn't do a paperback.
Either they didn't have the money, or something happened.
Signed by Ernest H. Shepard.
Yeah.
And so, what happens is that Justin calls and says, uh, guess what I have?
That sets the budget off.
I might like to take a picture.
Oh, terrible.
Do you want to go to the John?
You all right?
Bye.
I'm so excited.
This is so pretty.
Well, I have to go to John, and I'll be right back.
I'll be right back.
I'll take a picture of the art.
I love the way she had those.
Those are the boys, of course.
Aren't they cute?
They're his rifles.
Aren't they lovely?
The American edition.
When you say when I say G, you're talking about what again?
Uh, Shepard was an English illustrator, not an American illustrator, but Wind in the Willows is a wonderful book, and
Kenneth Graham was English, but these were done for the first, for the 50th anniversary American.
And there's the Homer.
Homer.
Does that mean anything to you?
I can't read it either.
I hate that kind of story.
I had a review book of his come in the other day, and I said, I should try, because I'm a book critic, to try one.
I told Claudia I can't do it.
Peter just thinks that, uh, I think you have to be on another Grandchild Collects Mad magazine.
Well, that's a good collection.
And, uh,
The other boy's looking for a 1967, something about the Boston Celtics.
The other, Betsy's three children aren't interested, really.
Now you say none of your children?
None of your children are interested.
We have two girls.
What are their names, can I ask?
Yeah, Betsy is Betsy Michelle.
Uh-huh.
She's a lawyer, and she lives only about 15 minutes.
She's also a lawyer.
And all three children went to Yale.
Uh-huh.
And Jody is also a lawyer, and she lives in Milton, Mass.
She's divorced, and she has three boys.
Those are three gorgeous boys that are up to school.
Yeah, but they're cute.
Yes, they're just great.
That was last winter, so that's up today.
This is all.
You see, I haven't gotten to cataloging.
On this far, you can see, but it can't be enough.
A catalog.
You've done all this work yourself, right?
All the catalog.
That's quite amazing.
In fact, that's worth a picture, Con.
My mother was.
Yes.
At least you know that they're enjoyed.
Do you have this organized by subject, or is it near, or is it by author?
This is all by...
My man by the name of Jacob Abbott.
And I gave a lot of them to Amherst, which I wish I hadn't.
Now, Jacob Abbott.
Does Amherst have a small collection?
Your collection is there, a small collection of it?
Amherst, I don't know.
They had a lot of his, and I had so many of them.
I gave later editions, and I don't think I could look at any more of them.
I mean, I'm still having trouble getting it.
These are all, I don't collect school books really.
But there they are.
This is the kind of thing missionaries did.
This is English and Chinese reader, missionary to Chinese.
This is 1882.
But they did this in Greece and Sandwich Islands and you name it.
I think they were restless and it was a great excuse to get the hell out of
the house and go somewhere, that you might volunteer to be a missionary.
I wish I could be neat like this, Connie.
This is really... I'm not impressed, but I got it pretty well.
And this is all, this is all hobbies, uh, uh... Book for boys.
That kind of thing.
Astronomy, how to put on a circus, electricity, you know, that kind of thing.
These are more recent, I think.
Uh, some of them, some aren't.
Some are, uh, uh, there's the one on dancing, for instance.
That was?
That was Tim.
Dancing as a Social Amusement.
From 1835.
Dancing as a Social Amusement by Professed Christians for their children.
So, this is that kind of thing.
God, what a forbidding title, huh?
Yeah, Book for Boys, you know.
Phileal virtues of Washington, uses of that insect.
Do you try to stop that foxing at all?
I can't do anything about it.
I don't think it gets any worse here.
But some of them, some of the old paper is great still.
And this is all Christmas.
Right here.
So, oh, and this is ABCs.
This and this.
Do you remember enjoying children's books when your children were little?
Did you always enjoy them, or were you different?
No, I used to read my brother's books, mainly.
And for the kids, yes, I think, you know, we did, we didn't.
Justine and me, I was always, my father was six to nine years, and almost back and forth to New York.
Me too.
Let's call them modern.
They're pretty much 1920s on up.
And these really are mostly, some are by author and some are by the illustrator.
These are all Sendak's, for instance.
They're, just because I think he's... The illustrator?
Yeah.
I thought he saw.
Did you see the I Saw Esau?
No, but I think she had it.
Yeah, because that just got illustrated.
Yeah, they just did a first illustrated of that.
Of which?
I Saw Esau.
Sendak.
Candlewood Press in Cambridge just did a new edition of that.
Oh, that's what you did with Mrs. Elfman.
With Mrs. Elfman.
I've got it up.
Okay.
And I haven't really had time to look at it.
It's quite lovely.
Is it good?
Yeah.
You did a lovely job.
Here are... This is...
American history, these relate to that, or geography, or natural history.
I can really see now, having seen this, why this, why Yale would be thrilled to have this, because this is a very comprehensive collection.
It is comprehensive.
It's a library, yeah.
A scholar, I see a number of monographs and PhD theses out of this, you know?
I hope they do.
These are, oh, these are the, uh,
And I haven't got them all, of course.
But as I see them, I pick them up if I can remember the title.
These are all Coltercott and Newbery winners.
And then these are all too big to fit in over there.
But Dr. Seuss, for instance.
Pretty funny.
Interesting.
Yeah, those are nice.
Yeah.
These are some of the ones they did early.
Oops, I'm sorry.
Let me show you the cover.
How do you like that?
Unbelievable.
It's about 1890.
That's gorgeous.
It's just terrible.
And look at the fabric.
But it's a terrible book.
1884.
And what's the title again?
Even Little... Seven.
Seven Little Maids.
And so take off, you see, on Kate Greenaway.
By Mary... But then they did... These were wonderful-looking books.
Call it Victoria...
That's an unusually good condition because they were kind of hard.
So then we run from there to annuals, you know, gift books.
This is natural history here.
I'd guess about 4,000, 3,000 books.
I know.
This is Mother Goose and Fairy Stories.
Oh, there's a Nonsense Books by Edward Lear.
Yes, humor.
And, oh, these are, and they came out quite early.
Not these, but others came out early.
These are words of one syllable.
The whole book?
Yeah.
And they started doing those in the 1830s.
This is another one I was finding.
Isn't that one?
It's great.
You can see what that was.
Oh, this is all Mother Goose.
I've got really good Mother Goose collection.
Then these, these are biographies.
And these, yeah, these are the, you know, in wrappers.
Where is?
Those are beautiful.
Just because you'd like to see that.
I mean, this is quite extraordinary, really.
Life of Lucy G. Thurston, pioneer missionary.
This is the one that Homer didn't do, but he did the, he did the, it's in that book.
Remarkable history of five little pigs.
showing the adventures of, etc.
He did the mice one, not this one.
It looks kind of like that?
Yeah, it looks exactly like that.
I've got it somewhere.
Where did Betsy put it?
I don't know, though.
That's okay.
And this is Mr. Dickens.
He said he was... Well, he's cheating again, though, isn't he?
According to the Betsy?
No, they're American editions.
Oh, okay.
This is one of his readings that he must have done in Worcester, maybe?
Maybe.
All Dickens, my God.
No, this is Dickens, these two shelves.
And then these are books that are pre-1900 that I don't know where to put.
But they're nice.
Oh, yeah.
I don't know.
I haven't decided where they should go.
Do you ever go to little bookstores and flea markets?
Of course.
Yeah.
Oh, sure.
But I don't as much, because I keep thinking, God, I've got to get these organized and... Do you ever make a great find?
Yes.
Like, Marcus wasn't speaking to me, because if I could find something Marcus doesn't have, I'd love it all the better.
You know, he's...
He's so competitive, except that my kids say the great secret about Mother is she's as competitive as anyone we know.
But he did have, in the whatever the magazine comes out, he had about a, they'd just gotten a Cherokee
I guess it was.
I forget what the date is.
And he went away locally in Morristown.
I found one a year earlier.
What's his name?
Head of the Indian tribe.
Was he speaking to you?
I couldn't wait.
I don't think so.
Well, you know as if it didn't mean too much, but it did.